<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Release Notes</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Release Notes</h1>

    <h2>1.30 (2018-08-28)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the changes listed below.</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/114">#114</a>:
        Expected locator attribute to contain 'language' in test Manage stored queries > create Stored Query With Unsupported Query Language</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/108">#108</a>:
        Test engine should not prune query parameters from capabilities endpoints</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/70">#70</a>:
        SOAP tests use version 1.1, but WFS specification has been modified to require 1.2 instead</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/119">#119</a>:
        Create Maven integration tests with SoapUI and Docker</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>1.29 (2018-05-15)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the changes listed below.</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/111">#111</a>:
        "Index: 0, Size: 0" error for test "temporal filter AfterTests afterInstant"</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/106">#106</a>:
        BBOX tests can fail due to precision issues</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/74">#74</a>:
        Comparison test fails to build proper xpath validation expression</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/100">#100</a>:
        returnFeatureTypes in CreateStoredQuery tests should contain the feature types from the filter</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/102">#102</a>:
        Update.updateSimplePropertyValue can try to set "NaN" as the value of double precision floating points</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>1.28 (2018-01-25)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the changes listed below.</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/73">#73</a>:
        Tests expecting OperationProcessingFailed along with a 400/403</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/71">#71</a>:
        tranverseResultsSetInBothDirections assumes the dataset has at least 4 features</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/82">#82</a>:
        LockFeatureTest.resetNonExistentLock expects 403 but the specs demands 400</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/69">#69</a>:
        Data availability tests has opaque failures</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/80">#80</a>:
        SpatialJoinTest.joinWithIntersects won't work unless there are two feature types with surface properties</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/83">#83</a>:
        GetFeatureWithLock.lockAllQueryResults_20Seconds issues an invalid LockFeature request</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/72">#72</a>:
        Complaince failed if there is no dataset supporting nillable properties</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/62">#62</a>:
        Describe Stored Query test failure for 2.0.2</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/75">#75</a>:
        After/Before tests cannot work against data sets having a single time</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/81">#81</a>:
        After test might post a schema invalid request</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/79">#79</a>:
        Test tries to create a stored query assuming inheritance support</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>1.27 (2017-10-27)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the changes listed below.</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/64">#64</a>:
        Add conformance class configuration into the wfs20 test</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>1.26 (2016-11-23)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the changes listed below.</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/56">#56</a>: 
      Incorrect XPath expression in supportedStoredQueryLanguages test</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/55">#55</a>: 
      ReplaceTests::replaceFeature test fails unexpectedly if versioning is enabled</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/53">#53</a>: 
      VersioningTests::replacementVersionHasNoSuccessor test alters gml:id value</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/51">#51</a>: 
      VersioningTests::deletedFeatureIsRetired test does not specify "LAST" version</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/48">#48</a>: 
      Some temporal filter tests fail with property of type gml:TimePeriodPropertyType</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/43">#43</a>: 
      ComparatorTests fail if xsd:date properties are used</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/42">#42</a>: 
      beforePeriod test fails sometimes (empty result set)</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/39">#39</a>: 
      Schematron validation fails if resolve parameter is set globally</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/38">#38</a>: 
      ResourceIdFilterTests::inconsistentFeatureIdentifierAndType and POST request</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/37">#37</a>: 
      Invalid GML geometry operand if system locale is DE</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/23">#23</a>: 
      SOAP response is not evaluated correctly in describeAllFeatureTypes</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix ClassCastException in temporal query tests when operand is gml:TimePeriod</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Update dependency: ets-gml32-1.25</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>1.25 (2016-10-04)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the following changes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Add tests for feature versioning</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Add tests for response paging</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Add tests for stored query management (CreateStoredQuery, DropStoredQuery)</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Include Schematron results as plain text</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Updated dependencies: ets-gml32-1.24, schema-utils-1.8</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>1.24 (2016-08-03)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the following fixes and enhancements:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix invalid lexical representation of decimal values (<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/pull/36">PR-36</a>)</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/41">issue #41</a>: 
      String comparison with numeric value fails</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Add tests for temporal predicates: After, Before</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Add support for temporal assertions based on relations from ISO 19108</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>1.23 (2016-07-12)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the following fixes and enhancements:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/34">issue #34</a>: 
      Updating some simple properties sets empty string</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/32">issue #32</a>: 
      Invalid GetFeatureWithLock request</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Add tests for Intersects operator (<code>*.filter.spatial.IntersectsTests</code>)</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Add tests for spatial joins (<code>*.joins.SpatialJoinTests</code>)</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Add tests for During operator (<code>*.filter.temporal.DuringTests</code>)</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Drop GML test suite listener (execution order is not guaranteed)</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Add support for command line arguments</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>1.22 (2016-05-03)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the following fixes and enhancements:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Support testing of WFS 2.0.2 implementations (<a target="_blank" 
      href="http://docs.opengeospatial.org/is/09-025r2/09-025r2.html">OGC 09-025r2</a>)</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/26">issue #26</a>: 
      Failed precondition when media type is invalid.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/25">issue #25</a>: 
      propertyIsNil test submits invalid request entity (POST).</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Update dependency: geomatics-geotk-1.11</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>1.21 (2016-02-16)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the following fixes and enhancements:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/22">issue #22</a>: 
      Add test for inconsistent feature id and type.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Resolve <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/21">issue #21</a>: 
      Promote preconditions to test methods.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/19">issue #19</a>: 
      Fail if unable to test required functionality for <em>Basic</em> conformance 
      (PropertyIsNil).</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Use parent POM: ets-common-6</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>1.20 (2015-11-02)</h2>
    <p>This maintenance release includes the following fixes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Merge <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/pull/15">PR-15</a>: 
      bugfix for sampleSize (DataSampler).</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix GitHub <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/16">issue #16</a>: 
      Move CTL wrapper script (to wfs/2.0.0).</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix Javadoc errors (JDK 8 doclint).</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Update dependencies.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>1.19 (2015-05-15)</h2>
    <p>No tests have been modified or added in this release, which includes the following 
	changes:</p>
    <ul>
	  <li style="list-style:square">Change status of test suite to "Final" (it may now be 
	  used for the purpose of OGC compliance certification).</li>
	  <li style="list-style:square">Fix Content-Type header in POST requests.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Adopt new ETS versioning scheme.</li>
	  <li style="list-style:square">Add "all-in-one" binary assembly (-aio.jar).</li>
	  <li style="list-style:square">Update dependencies.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r18 (2014-10-16)</h2>
    <p>This maintenance release includes the following changes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Resolve GitHub <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/14">issue #14</a>.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Resolve GitHub <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/13">issue #13</a>.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Resolve GitHub <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/11">issue #11</a>.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Resolve GitHub <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/10">issue #10</a>.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">In Update tests, replace non-ASCII character
      in property value with numeric character reference (&#x26;#xhhhh;).</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Add brief description annotations to test methods.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r17 (2014-08-20)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the following changes and bug fixes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix GitHub <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/3">issue 3</a>.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix GitHub <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/2">issue 2</a>.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix GitHub <a target="_blank" 
      href="https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-wfs20/issues/1">issue 1</a>.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">In <code>BasicGetFeatureTests</code>, the schema validator 
      will always use a catalog-based entity resolver.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r16 (2014-06-10)</h2>
    <p>This release incorporates the following changes and fixes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix CITE-948: Amend LockingFixture to consult data sampler for available feature types.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix CITE-947: Replace apostrophe with predefined XML entity (&apos;).</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix CITE-946: Add missing namespace binding for XPath expression.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Include all unsuccessful transaction requests in report (as ITestResult attribute).</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Modify POM for GitHub.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Add site content.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Change license to Apache License, Version 2.0.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r15 (2014-04-15)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the following updates:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix CITE-944: InsertResults/UpdateResults/ReplaceResults.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fix CITE-925: Infinite loop in selectRandomFeatureType.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Update dependencies.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r14 (2014-02-04)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the following fixes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fixed CITE-924: Check if the (embedded) Derby database exists and contains EPSG tables; if not, create them.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Updated dependency: ets-gml-3.2.1-r13.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r13 (2013-12-04)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the following changes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Resolved CITE-890: updateGMLName test fails.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Updated dependency: ets-gml-3.2.1-r12.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r12 (2013-11-14)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the following changes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Resolved CITE-893: Removed boundedByIsNil test.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r11 (2013-10-29)</h2>
    <p>This release includes the following changes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fixed CITE-883: Stored query tests throw NullPointerException.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Fixed CITE-874: Test run aborts with <code>ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException</code>.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Allow upload of capabilities document (form interface).</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Updated dependencies.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r10 (2013-09-19)</h2>
    <p>This is a maintenance release; it includes the following changes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">Resolved CITE-866: CRS reference not inherited from geometry collection 
      (fixed in geomatics-geotk-1.1).</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Write reporter output to test session directory when invoked via CTL script.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r9 (2013-08-30)</h2>
    <p>This is a maintenance release; it includes the following fixes and enhancements:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-863: Revised ExceptionReport.sch to allow for SOAP fault message.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-812: Added optional 'fid' test run argument.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-861: propertyIsGreaterThanEqualTo_matchAny (invalid string literal for integer).</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-860: propertyIsLike (only applies to properties of type xsd:string).</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r8 (2013-08-27)</h2>
    <p>This is a maintenance release; it includes the following fixes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-859: updateFeatureName test is not run.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-847: NullPointerException when handling SOAP error response.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r7 (2013-07-24)</h2>
    <p>This is a maintenance release; it includes the following fixes and enhancements:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-837: GetFeatureById with unknown Id should return status code 403.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Updated dependency: ets-gml-3.2.1-r7.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Write response entity to report (attribute) if test method failed.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r6 (2013-07-16)</h2>
    <p>This is a maintenance release; it includes the following enhancements and fixes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-836: Precondition checkDataAvailability only tries one message binding.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-832: GetFeatureById response should include feature representation by itself.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r5 (2013-07-15)</h2>
    <p>This is a maintenance release; it includes the following changes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-831: Added constructor functions to XPath expressions (PropertyIsEqualToOperatorTests).</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-827: Changed how the content of a SOAP body is extracted from response entity.</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-806: The legacy SOAP 1.1 namespace is used by default in SOAP request messages</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-785: DateTime parsing problem (RelationalOperatorTests)</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">Changed stored query identifiers in accord with the <a target="_blank" 
      href="http://def.seegrid.csiro.au/sissvoc/ogc-def/resource?uri=http://www.opengis.net/def/query/">OGC-NA register</a></li>
    </ul>

    <h2>2.0-r4 (2013-07-04)</h2>
    <p>This is a maintenance release. The following issues were resolved:</p>
    <ul>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-813 (Soap Responses): Added client support for SOAP message responses</li>
      <li style="list-style:square">CITE-779 (Test Suite hangs): Added prerequisite checks in @BeforeSuite methods</li>
    </ul>

  </body>
</html>
